.TH minirt 6 "27 March 2020" "version 1.0" "minirt manpage"
.SH NAME
minirt - a basic raytracer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "minirt \t[--save] " "input_file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
the 
.B minirt 
program is a basic raytracer that simulates the environment loaded from the input file, please read the 
.B rt_input
(5) for further information about the 
.I input_file 
and its syntax.
.br
It uses the 
.B PHONG 
lighting and shading model and it has a scalable 
.B anti-aliasing 
factor that allows the user to control the clarity and the accuracy of the displayed image.

.SH KEY-BINDING
the user can control the scene even after it is loaded from the 
.I input_file
through to the following keys :
.br

.SH \tObjects translation
.TP
.B Up
move forward
.TP
.B Down
move backward
.TP
.B Left
move to the left
.TP
.B right
move to the right
.TP
.B +
move up
.TP
.B -
move down

.SH \tObjects transformation
.TP
.B 1
rotate the selected object counterclockwise horizontally.
.TP
.B 2
rotate the selected object to the front.
.TP
.B 3
the same as 
.B 1.
.TP
.B 4
rotate the selected object counterclockwise vertically.
.TP
.B 6
rotate the selected object clockwise vertically.
.TP
.B 7
rotate the selected object clockwise horizontally. 
.TP
.B 8
rotate the selected object to the back.
.TP
.B 9
the same as
.B 7.

.SH \tHidden object selection and traversal
.TP
.B c
reselect the last camera the user has selected as the user object.
.TP
.B l
reselect the last light the user has selected as the user object.
.TP
.B n
get the next camera if the user object is not a light object.
.TP
.B p
get the previous camera if the user object is not a light object.
.TP
.B o
if the selected object is a cylinder, it will put
.B on
caps on the cylinder if the are not. Likewise, it will put them
.B off
, if the cylinder has caps already.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EMFE
missing file extension. the 
.I input_file
has no file extension.
.TP
.B EWFE
wrong file extension. The
.I input_file
has a wrong file extension. Only files with
.B .rt
extension are valid.
.TP
.B EMIF
missing input_file. no
.B argument
have been declared.
.TP
.B EUPA
undesired program arguments. The program accepts at max 2 arguments; if more than 2 arguments have been given, this error will be returned.
.TP
.B EIA
invalid arguments.
.TP
.B EFR
file reading error. A problem accured when opening the input_file.
.TP
.B EMA
memorry allocation failure.


.TP
.B EMRD
multiple 
.B resolution
declaration. This error is returned if the 
.I input_file
contains more than 1 configuration for the resolution entity.
.TP
.B EMAD
multiple 
.B ambient light
declaration. This error is returned if the 
.I input_file
contains more than 1 configuration for the ambient light entity.
.TP
.B EER
empty 
.B resolution. 
No resolution had been declared in the
.I input_file.
.TP
.B EEA
empty 
.B ambient light. 
No ambient light had been declared in the
.I input_file.
.TP
.B EEC
empty 
.B camera. 
No camera had been declared in the
.I input_file.

.TP
.B EMC
mlx_connection error. the connection to the 
.B X server 
has failed.
.TP
.B EWC
window creation error.
.TP
.B EIC
image creation error.
